>> Jason Lengstorf: We told
Gatsby to expect a body,
but we haven't done that yet.
And the reason for
that is that not all of the node types
fully resolved by the time
we get to on create node.
And so that creates a challenge.
If I wanna get the MDX body,
which is that kind of processed code that
we can use on a site to display MDX.
I can't just call it here, it's not set.
So that means that I have to
create a custom resolver.
And so this is where we're kind
of getting into the fun part,
the really nitty gritty
of how Gatsby works.
So we're gonna go ahead and
create the custom resolver.
And we do that using
the createresolver API hook,
which gives us, sorry,
it's plural createresolvers.
And that gives us a function
called createresolvers.
And we call that.
And if you've ever used GraphQL before,
the way that resolvers work is
they reflect the data structure.
So if you have a type of docs page,
you can
define resolvers by creating an object
that has docs page as the object key, and
then a field name as a sub-object.
By default, what it'll do is
it'll look for the node, so
this docs page node that we're creating.
And it will say on that node, give me
the property that matches the field name.
So for title, it'll look for node.title.
And in these cases, for the ID title
updated in path, that's what we want.
We want the default behavior.
So we don't need to modify that.
Resolvers will work as expected.
But for body,
we don't have a body on here.
So we need to change that.
And that means that we need
to do a couple things.
So first, we need to set up a couple
things that I just realized I forgot when
I got excited about setting this thing up.
So in a createNode call, every Gatsby
node needs to have this internal field.
Remember, we talked
about that a minute ago.
It includes the type name and
those sorts of things.
So we're gonna set up the type and
we'll just use DocsPage.
Again, this can be whatever we want,
we just wanna make sure that it's unique.
You could do something clever in here
to have a guaranteed unique type name.
But unless you're doing a really
really complex Gatsby site,
this is pretty easy to manage.
And the next thing that we need is we
always wanna give it a content digest.
Because Gatsby uses the content digest,
which is like a hash of the node content
to decide whether or not it should throw
away that node and build a new one.
That's a way to do less
work during the build.
So, in this case,
we don't really need to create one
because we're just using an MDX node.
So we'll just use that
node's content digest, so
we don't have to do any extra work.
Because if our MDX node changes,
our docs page will change.
That's a fairly safe assumption.
Now that we've got these, these internal
and type, we can actually use them.
So in our createResolvers we're
going to get into our DocsPage type,
and then we're gonna
set up a body resolver.
So, a body type declaration in
a resolver like this has two properties.
The first one is a type, and so that's
gonna match our declaration up here.
Let me collapse these down so
it's easier to move between.
We've got our body,
which is a string and it's required.
So in here, we're gonna say it's
a string and it's required.
And then we have
a property called resolve.
And that is a function.
So that gets four arguments.
This is a pretty standard GraphQL pattern.
The first argument is the actual data,
so the node itself.
Then you get any arguments
passed to that node.
So if you had a filter or
when we're using the date format if we
wanna set how to format things,
that would come in this args argument.
Then we get context, which is information
about the request or the node.
And finally, we get info,
which is kind of general
information about the GraphQL Schema and
all the things that we might be doing.
And because we are diving
into the internals of Gatsby,
we are gonna use all four of those.
Typically, you'll find a lot of
times you'll just use the source.
But when you get into these kind of fun
things, it will get a little wonky.
So the first thing we wanna do is we
wanna load the resolver for the MDX
type, and
specifically we want the body field.
So we do that by creating
a new constant and
we'll just do info.schema.getType ('mdx').
And then below that we're going
to get all the mdxFields.
And that's going to be type getFields.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So what we've done
right now is we've said in the Gatsby
schema, the whole schema, we want to load
the whole schema definition for MDX nodes.
That gives us our type.
So then we're gonna load all of the fields
for MDX and that gives us the field.
So among other things,
it will give us that body field.
And then I wanna get the resolver for it.
And I do that by getting
mdxFields.body.resolve.
And this resolve is defined
the same way as this one is.
So what we're basically saying is,
I want to be able to resolve
the request to the docs page body type,
exactly the same way as we resolve
MDX node request to the body type.
Does that make sense?
So what we've done in doing this is
we've made a pass through resolver.
And that means that our docs page
is going to handle requests for
MDX data exactly the same way as MDX does.
And we're not reinventing the wheel,
we're not re-implementing MDX.
We're just using the work
that MDX is already doing.
So once we've got this resolver,
we can I get the mdxNode,
which will do by going into the context.
And we'll go into the nodeModel and
get the node by its ID.
And the ID is the parent node
because remember our docs page,
set a, or did I said a parent?
I hope I did.
I have the parent.
But I didn't set it.
So let's set that as well.
So we will set the,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Node id of
our MDX node as the parent
of our DocsPage node so
that we're able to reference
that in this resolver.
So having this source node.parent means
that we can pull out the MDX node itself.
Once we've loaded this MDX node,
we can now just resolve it.
So we're gonna run this resolver function
that we pulled out of the MDX body field.
And our arguments are the mdxNode
that we wanna get data from,
the args that were passed in in
case we wanted to do pass through,
the context of the request
in case that's needed.
And then we just wanna tell the meta
that we're using the body field.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So
now that we've done that,
what we should be able to do is query for
our docs page type and
load MDX data into the body field.
And then get all the other data, from
the front matter, from the file system,
all in one place in one kind of simple
node API so that we're not doing anything.
We don't wanna have to do all these
workarounds in our business logic.
We wanna set this up once and
then have simple queries for
the frontend developers to use.
So if I stop and restart, and now in
order to do this, because we just changed
the way that nodes work, we're going to
want to get Gatsby to pull a fresh start.
So to do that,
we're gonna run gatsby clean.
But the way that you run gatsby clean and
yarn workspaces is we're actually
gonna do yarn workspace theme-dev.
And then I can just execute an arbitrary
command within the context of that.
So I wanna run gatsby clean.
And it's going to remove the public and
cache directory so
that we're basically
starting from scratch.
So then I can run yarn
workspace theme-dev develop.
And assuming all went well,
what will happen is this is gonna boot
up with our GraphQL layer in place.
And we will be able to actually query for
our homepage.
So now we've got our docs pages.
And those are pulling out the data
that we told it to, right?
So now we've got custom data
coming in to our GraphQL layer
using a variety of
different nodes as data.
So we're using the file system.
We're using custom data that
we're creating for the path.
And we're using the MDX data for
the body field.
This is all kind of transparent, or
this is all kind of hidden from
anybody who has to implement this.
They just know I want docs data,
and they get it.
So they don't even have to
care that this comes from MDX.
They just need to have data to use.
And to look a little bit at kind of
how this a lot of things get done for
us, let's just set from now to true.
And this is a built in
helper to do relative time.
So right now we can see it
gave us this time stamp.
It's a little small.
So let's make that a little bigger.
And if I change it to from
now equals true and hit play.
Now it gives us a relative change.
So 41 minutes ago was the last time
that this document was changed.
So we can just use that in plain English
when we display this on the site.
We only change the Gatsby node.
So let's add that.
And then we'll commit (theme-dev):
add schema customization.
And let me push that.
And so this is all being pushed to
the fen-progress branch on the repo if
you want to kind of reset to
where we are at any given moment.